hello so I'm home again now and in the
comfort of home outside of the wind and
so I can continue and hopefully complete
chapter three so the last thing I talked
about was the definition or as I say the
explanation of what is a person is
according to David Deutsch those
entities think and create explanatory
knowledge and I spent a vast amount of
time on this but and I probably waxed it
lyrical a little too much so I'm going
to skip forward a number of pages and
and move towards the second half really
of the chapter it's a very long chapter
and I'm going to just jump over sections
such as for example where David
distinguishes between explanatory
knowledge genetic knowledge and and
there's a third type which he calls
cultural knowledge and cultural
knowledge is of course the way it sounds
it is the knowledge that is embedded
within a culture in some way it's this
in explicit type knowledge there's also
a sense in which other animals have
cultural knowledge as well and so we're
going to come to see and this is the
reason I'm passing over it in chapter 16
a cultural knowledge of a sort that for
example great apes have where they're
able to behave your paths and behavior
passing is where knowledge can be passed
on from one generation to the next
via a culture so there are memes there
that are being transmitted from one
place to the next but it's not
explanatory now it's very interesting
it's a nuance to argument but it says
that there are certain kinds of
knowledge that can be passed from one
generation to another in great ape
species that isn't encoded entirely in
their genes but can't be divorced from
their genes either kind of like us but
it's not explanatory and it's not
universal we'll get there in chapter 16
so for now I'm going to skip over the
part of chapter 3 where it's mentioned
so now let's get to a new part of
chapter 3
and David writes one might wonder
whether the reach of people in general
might be greater than the reach of
humans what if for instance the reach of
Technology is indeed limited but only to
creatures with two opposable thumbs on
each hand or if the reach of scientific
knowledge is unlimited but only to
beings whose brains are twice the size
of ours but our Faculty of being
Universal constructors makes these
issues as irrelevant as that of access
to vitamins if progress at some point
was a depend on having two thumbs per
hand then the outcome would depend not
on the knowledge we inherit in our genes
but on whether we could discover how to
build robots or gloves with two thumbs
per hand or alter ourselves to have a
second thumb if it depends on having
more memory capacity or speed than a
human brain then the outcome will depend
on whether we could build computers to
do the job again such things are already
commonplace in technology so this is the
argument I hear frequently from
popularizers of science physicists
especially who are interested in
questions of astrobiology and whether
there are aliens out there or not and
the argument is about the extent to
which the laws of physics as I mentioned
in my last video the extent to which the
laws of physics might be
incomprehensible to us but
comprehensible nonetheless to some other
kind of intelligent lifeform out there
so there might be these super
intelligent aliens or indeed the super
intelligence of the form that the AI
catastrophists are concerned about so
this is the Nick Bostrom flavor of
peasant's technological pessimist who
argues that the AGI could turn up or
it's not an AGI really I've written a
blog about this it's sort of a super AI
a conniving sort of AI that might decide
to take over humanity either because of
min Evelyn's or because it's simply
uncaring and wants to convert everything
into paperclips and having been told to
convert everything into paperclips
you know refuses to stop whatever the
case there might be these kind of super
intelligences that are able to
comprehend
things in the universe physical laws
that our brains don't allow us to and
die habit has just explained there how
that can't be possible
because the only things that can be
augmented could be the speed and memory
capacity and those things we already
routinely do I'll continue David speaks
along similar lines now he says the
astrophysicists Martin Rees has
speculated that somewhere in the
universe there could be life and
intelligence out there in forms we can't
conceive just as a chimpanzee can't
understand quantum theory it could be
there are aspects of reality that are
far beyond the capacity of our brains
I'll just pause there and add a little
personal anecdote my father says exactly
the same thing he says that attempting
to understand God is like a chicken
trying to understand a human and I've
always found this objectionable because
of this idea of being able to comprehend
staff if it can be put into words and so
can be put into words for a god or for a
super alien intelligence in their
language then it can be translated into
our language and we can understand it
anyway continue with what David has to
say here David writes but that cannot be
so for if the capacity in question is
mere computational speed and amount of
memory then we can understand the
aspects in question with the help of
computers just if we just as we have
understood the world for centuries with
the help of pencil and paper
as Einstein remarked my pencil and I are
more clever than I in terms of
computational repertoire our computers
and brains are already universal but if
the claim is that we may be
qualitatively unable to understand what
some other forms of intelligence can if
your disability cannot be remedied by
mere automation then this is just
another claim that the world is not
explicable indeed it is tantamount to an
appeal to the supernatural with all the
arbitrariness that is inherent in such
Appeals for if we wanted to incorporate
into our worldview an imaginary realm
explicable only to super humans we need
never have bothered to abandon the myths
of Persephone and her fellow deities
I'll pause there this is me speaking
again
this is wonderful so when in a
discussion about these issues among
scientifically minded people you
encounter this objection that a person
is thinking trying to think hard and
rationally about these issues and
whether or not aliens are out there and
whether or not the world is
comprehensible
and whether or not they're super
intelligence out there one thing to keep
in mind is if someone argues that there
could be realms out there that are
inexplicable to us but explicable either
to super intelligent aliens or to super
intelligent artificial intelligence then
what they're saying is that there are
realms regions of the universe laws of
physics that essentially are as
inexplicable to us as a supernatural
being would be and so the argument is
precisely the same instead of having God
being the thing that cannot be explained
by the human mind you're just replacing
your supernatural God with a
supernatural alien or a supernatural
technology they serving exactly the same
function they're arguing that certain
things can't be understood by human
beings so let's continue David writes so
human reach is essentially the same as
the reach of explanatory knowledge
itself an environment is within human
reach if it is possible to create an
open-ended stream of explanatory
knowledge there that means that if
knowledge of a suitable kind were
instantiated in such an environment in
suitable physical objects it would cause
itself to survive and will then continue
to increase indefinitely can there
really be such an environment this is
essentially the question that I asked at
the end of the last chapter can this
creativity continue indefinitely and it
is the question to which the spaceship
earth metaphor assumes a negative answer
okay so now David moves into explicitly
writing about the content of one of his
TED Talks this amazing insight he gives
that anywhere in the universe could be a
potential hub of knowledge creation of
open-ended knowledge creation he says
there's only three things that you need
so I won't read the entire chapter here
I'll just pick out a few key points so
he says what's needed for this
open-ended creation of knowledge is
firstly matter we need to get matter and
he also argues the reason why we need
matters so that we can power everything
so if we want to power our knowledge
creation we're going to need some form
of energy and that requires matter and
we're going to need somewhere to store
the knowledge that we create and that's
going to require matter we're also going
to need evidence we're going to need to
be able to find out about the world so
the evidence comes flooding in and so
when we start to create our knowledge we
need to test our theories and the way to
test our theories is by recourse to
comparing our theories against the
evidence or we have competing theories
to see which one is ruled out by the
evidence that's the purpose of evidence
so these are these are the things that
we need we need matter and evidence so
he says matter energy and evidence are
just matter is energy right according to
Einstein's theory of general relativity
we can convert one into the other so
that's no problem I mean he writes on
matter energy and evidence are the only
requirements that an environment needs
to have in order to be a venue for
open-ended knowledge creation isn't
amazing um in other words just about
anywhere in the universe even
intergalactic space where all of those
things are at their lowest possible
values is the least amount of matter
energy and evidence is out there in
intergalactic space but there is matter
and energy out there and there is
evidence coming in but all you need is a
moderate-sized telescope as he points
out so if we want to transform any part
of the universe into a hub of knowledge
creation we can do so if we know how if
we can figure out how I'm skipping a bit
so now he's speaking about once you have
this matter energy and evidence what can
you do with it you can have an
open-ended stream of knowledge creation
what does that mean well it could mean
converting things into space colonies
where people can be in order to create
the knowledge we might start at the moon
so he writes setting up self-sufficient
colonies on the moon and elsewhere in
the solar system and eventually in other
solar systems will be a good hedge
against the extinction of our species or
the destruction of civilization and as a
highly desirable goal for that reason
among others as Stephen Hawking has said
I don't think the human race will
survive the next thousand years unless
we spread into space there are too many
accidents that can befall life in a
single planet but I'm an optimist we
will reach out to the stars
end quote David writes but even that
will be far from an unproblematic state
and most people are not satisfied merely
to be confident in the survival of the
species they want to survive personally
also like at earliest human ancestors
they want to be free from physical
dangerous suffering skipping a little in
fact people who always want still more
than that
they will want to make progress for in
addition to threats there will always be
problems in the benign sense of the word
errors gaps inconsistencies and
inadequacies in our knowledge that we
wish to solve including not least moral
knowledge knowledge about what to want
what to strive for I'm just going to
pause there this is another place that
David Deutsch provides a parsimonious
true and refined way of getting at the
heart of what morality is about so many
people now concerned about what are the
moral foundations of civilization they
are concerned that if we well in many
cases they're concerned about giving up
religion because if we give up religion
then we have then we fruitfully free of
a moral foundation others say well now
that we've had religion we've tried that
now let us look for a new moral
foundation once more david provides this
Third Way we don't have to be concerned
about moral foundations in religious
moral foundations and we don't need to
be concerned about secular moral
foundations we don't have to be
concerned about moral foundations you'll
get to a part about what morality
essentially consists of and how to
ensure that we can continue to improve
our morality and make progress a
morality just as anywhere else but he
he's hinting about how morality is
different to other areas and other areas
are relevant to making moral decisions
but what morality is about so I'll
repeat what David has said there is that
morality or moral knowledge is knowledge
about what to want what to strive for so
it's about the should it's about the
future it's about what we are trying to
achieve what we should want we always
have a very large possibly infinite
repertoire of things before us that we
could choose to do morality is about
which one should we choose
do we need foundations for this we don't
what we need is a stance of error
correction but I'm getting ahead of
myself we'll leave that for future
chapters so let's continue David writes
here is another misconception in the
Garden of Eden myth that the supposed
unproblematic state would be a good
state to be in some theologians have
denied this and I agree with them and
unproblematic state as a state without
creative thought its other name is death
this is fantastic this is the idea of
utopias whether they're religious
utopias so I think people like
Christopher Hitchens would have
complained that heaven as it is normally
spoken about in monotheism sounds like a
terribly boring place and I would agree
not a terribly boring it sounds awful I
mean you're under perpetual surveillance
apparently by this all-seeing God but
nothing ever changes because
everything's perfect so - in political
utopias this idea that we can finally
once and for all
grok the ultimate political system such
that everything is working in its best
possible way its most perfect way
instead if we simply have a an
understanding that people are fallible
so their institutions are fallible and
what we should be striving for is
incremental improvement things tend to
go a lot better we don't tend to have
bloody revolutions
we improve things where we can and we
improve things slowly
such that we can correct the errors when
we make miss steps but striving for
utopia is a bad idea
striving for unproblematic States is
striving for somewhere where we do not
have to correct errors anymore because
all the errors have been corrected and
that sounds like hell rather than heaven
or any kind of utopia let's continue
with Chapter three David writes nor will
we ever run out of problems the deeper
and explanation is the more new problems
it creates that must be so if only
because there could be no such thing as
an ultimate explanation just as the gods
did it is always a bad explanation so
any other purported foundation of all
explanations must be bad - it must be
easily variable because it cannot answer
the question why that foundation and not
some other nothing can be explained only
in terms of itself that holds for
philosophy just as it does for science
and in particular it holds for moral
philosophy no utopia is possible but
only because our values and our
objectives can continue to improve
indefinitely we're about to get to the
part that not only is the most famous
part of the chapter but it's possibly
the most famous part of the book there
are many famous parts of the book but
this this one really stands out so let
me just read it he writes thus
fallibilism alone rather understates the
error-prone nature of knowledge creation
knowledge creation is not only subject
to error there is a common and
significant and always will be and
correcting them will always reveal
further and better problems and so the
maxim that I have suggested should be
carved in stone namely the Earth's
biosphere is incapable of supporting
human life is actually a special case of
a much more general truth namely that
for people problems are soluble
so let us carve that in stone problems
are inevitable it is inevitable that we
face problems but no particular problem
is inevitable we survive and thrive by
solving each problem as it comes up and
since the human ability to transform
nature is limited only by the laws of
physics
none of the endless stream of problems
will ever constitute an impassable
barrier
so a complementary and equally important
truth about people and the physical
world is that problems are soluble by
soluble I mean that the right knowledge
would solve them it is not of course
that we can possess knowledge just by
wishing for it but it is in principle
accessible to us so let us carve that in
stone two problems are soluble so this
is very famous and people speak about
this and sometimes as a criticism of
David's philosophy and it's a mistaken
criticism
David is a fallibilist but they find
this grating in some way that he's
carved things in stone I think John
Horgan perhaps made this criticism or
some others have done it in print as
well this idea that one would carve
things in stone sounds somewhat
ridiculous
and religious but but I find it a quaint
idea and it's a way of emphasizing this
magnificent dichotomy it also underpins
constructor theory
a fully fledged scientific theory and so
it's important to have these principles
that underline that underlie our
rationality and our reason it doesn't
mean that they cannot possibly be
criticized it doesn't mean they're not
fallible it simply means that they're a
good way in order to arrange our reason
in order to approach problems in an
optimistic way so this provides a basis
not an unalterable foundation they
provide a basis or a framework within
which we can operate it's an infinite
sized framework okay the idea that
problems are inevitable and problems are
soluble so the criticism is more a
criticism of approach rather than the
criticism of David on this point I think
is nothing but a criticism of approach
or of style rather than anything to do
with substance so I'll continue
that progress is both possible and
desirable is perhaps the quintessential
idea of the Enlightenment it motivates
all traditions of criticism as well as
the principle of seeking good
explanations but it can be interpreted
in too almost opposite ways both of
which confusingly are known as
perfectibility
one is that humans or human societies
are capable of attaining a state of
supposed perfection such as the Buddhist
or Hindu Nirvana or various political
utopias the other is that every
attainable state can be indefinitely
improved fallibilism rules out the first
position in favor of the second okay so
everything can be improved there's no
such thing as heaven or Nirvana or
utopia now there precedes to be some
lengthy discussion and it's worthwhile
reading get the book and read the book
but about the history of the
Enlightenment and it's very interesting
I personally find it very interesting
because I just happen to be interested
in the history of philosophy but it's
essentially about these esoteric matters
of the difference between continental
French style German style
Enlightenment thinking and British style
Enlightenment thinking and David points
out that the Continental style seemed to
be seeking final answers and utopias and
the British style recognized the more
fallibilist nature of the human
condition and human beings then there's
another lengthy section which David I
think well David definitely drew from in
order to frame his TED talk it was the
one that got the biggest laugh if I
remember where he speaks about the
matter energy and evidence out there in
intergalactic space are all they're at
their lowest possible supply so it's
completely empty and then he says or is
it that is another parochial
misconception and people laugh because
it's so astounding it's the idea that it
that you're you know you're about to
hear something astonishing namely that
even this implacably dark and empty
place is going to turn out to be a hub
of a potential hub of knowledge creation
that's fantastic so I'll continue after
missing those two significant sections
he writes all people in the universe
once they have understood enough to
freedoms
from parochial obstacles faced
essentially the same opportunities this
is an underlying unity in the physical
world more significant than all the
discernment then all the dissimilarities
I have described between our environment
and a typical one the fundamental laws
of nature are so uniform and evidence
about them so ubiquitous and the
connections between understanding and
control so intimate that whether we are
on our parochial home planet or a
hundred million light years away in
intergalactic plasma we can do the same
science and make the same progress
so a typical location in the universe is
amenable to the open-ended creation of
knowledge and therefore so are almost
all other kinds of environment since
they have more matter more energy and
easy access to any evidence than
intergalactic space the thought
experiment considered almost the worst
possible case perhaps the laws of
physics do not allow knowledge creation
inside say the jet of a quasar or
perhaps they do but either way in the
universe at large knowledge friendliness
is the rule not the exception that is to
say the rule is person friendliness to
people who have the relevant knowledge
death is the rule for those who do not
skipping some more and now I get to one
of my favorite parts of this entire
chapter and something that I have
prefaced previously in the last two
parts of this chapter so let me just
read quite a lengthy section here now he
writes now I can turn to the
significance of knowledge and therefore
of people in the cosmic scheme of things
many things are more obviously
significant in people space and time are
significant because they appear in
almost all explanations of other
physical phenomena
similarly electrons and atoms are
significant humans seem to have no place
in that exalted company their history in
our politics our science art and
philosophy our aspirations and moral
values all these are tiny side effects
of a supernova explosion a few billion
years ago which could be extinguished
tomorrow by another such explosion
supernovae too are moderately
significant in the cosmic scheme of
things but it seems that one can explain
everything about supernovae and almost
everything else without ever mentioning
people or knowledge at all
however that is merely another parochial
error due to our current uncool vantage
point in an Enlightenment that is mere
centuries old in the longer run humans
may colonize other solar systems and by
increasing their knowledge control ever
more powerful physical processes if
people ever choose to live near a star
that is capable of exploding then there
will wish to prevent such an explosion
probably by removing some of the
material from the star such a project
would use many orders of magnitude more
energy than humans currently control and
more advanced technology as well but it
is a fundamentally simple task not
requiring any steps there even close to
limits imposed by the laws of physics so
with the right knowledge it could be
achieved indeed for all we know
engineers elsewhere in the universe are
already achieving it routinely and
consequently it is not true that the
attributes of supernovae in general are
independent of the presence or absence
of people or of what those people know
and intend more generally if we want to
predict what a star will do we first
have to guess whether there are any
people near it and if so what knowledge
they may have and what they may want to
achieve outside our parochial
perspective after our physics is
incomplete without a theory of people
just that is as it is incomplete without
a theory of gravity or nuclear reactions
note that this conclusion does not
depend on the assumption that humans or
anyone else will colonize the galaxy and
take control of any supernova the
assumption that they will not is equally
a theory about the future behavior of
people knowledge is a significant
phenomena in the universe because to
make almost any prediction about
astrophysics one must take a position
about what types of knowledge will or
will not be present near the phenomena
in question so all explanations of what
is out there in the physical world
mentioned knowledge and people if only
implicitly but knowledge is more
significant even than that consider any
physical object for instance a solar
system or a microscopic chip of silicon
and then consider all the
transformations that it is physically
possible for it to undergo for instance
the silicon chip might be melted and
solidify in a different shape or it
might be transformed
into a chip with a different
functionality the solar system might be
devastated when its star becomes a
supernova or life might evolve on one of
its planets or it might be transformed
using transmutation and other futuristic
technologies into micro processes in all
cases the class of transformations that
could happen spontaneously in the
absence of knowledge is negligible slips
is negligibly small compared to the
class that could be affected
artificially by intelligent beings who
wanted those transformations to happen
so the explanations of almost all
physically possible phenomena are about
how knowledge would be applied to bring
these phenomena about if you want to
explain how an object might possibly
reach a temperature of 10 degrees or a
million you can refer to spontaneous
processes and can avoid mentioning
people explicitly even though most
processes at those temperatures can be
brought about only by people but if you
want to explain how an object might
possibly cool down to a millionth of a
degree above absolute zero you cannot
avoid explaining in detail what people
would do and then it's still only the
list of it in your mind's eye continue
your journey from that point in into
collective space to another at least ten
times as far away our destination this
time is inside one of the Jets of a
quasar what would it be like in one of
those Jets language is barely capable of
expressing it it'd be rather like facing
a supernova explosion at point-blank
range but for millions of years at a
time
this suffer say that is the best
explanation that is the best description
of a quasar that I have read and I have
read a lot of astrophysics books before
yeah so let's continue the survival time
for a human body will be measured in
Pico seconds as I said it is unclear
whether the laws of physics permit any
knowledge to grow there let alone and
life support system for humans it is
about us different from our ancestral
environment as could possibly be the
laws of physics that explain it bear no
resemblance to any rules of thumb that
were ever in our ancestors genes are in
their culture yet human brains today now
in considerable detail what is happening
there
we're about to get to this amazing
relationship between the laws of physics
and structures out there in the universe
and our brains a connection is made here
that has never been made before so let
me read David writes of the quasar jet
somehow that jet happens in such a way
that billions of years later on the
other side of the universe
a chemical scum can know and predict
what the jet will do and can understand
why that means that one physical system
say an astrophysicist brain contains an
accurate working model of the other the
jet not just a superficial image though
it contains that as well but an
explanatory theory that embodies the
same mathematical relationships and
causal structures that is scientific
knowledge furthermore the faithfulness
with which the one structure resembles
the other is steadily increasing that
constitutes the creation of knowledge
here we have physical objects very
unlike each other and whose behavior is
dominated by different laws of physics
embodying the same mathematical and
causal structures and doing so ever more
accurately over time of all the physical
processes that can occur in nature only
the creation of knowledge exhibits that
underlying structure Wow it that that's
amazing
so he's just said picking possibly the
most alien kind of environment that we
can presently think of a quasar jet
where as far as we know theoretically
it's powered by a rotating black hole
that's spinning so fast that the
magnetic fields cause the material that
is spiraling into the black hole to be
shot out because of the magnetic fields
in great Jets and these Jets as far as I
remember the matter in those Jets is
accelerating away from the black hole at
close to relativistic speeds so it's
kind of like a particle accelerator but
but at ridiculously high energy and so
if you were to stand inside of that jet
as David said it would be something like
experiencing supernova blows Minkler it
would be something like experiencing a
supernova blast
the case it is an environment completely
unlike the human brain the human brain
is a wet 36 degrees Celsius object
rather complicated a quasar jet is
millions billions of degrees Celsius
traveling at relativistic speeds the
human brain is not they're completely
different the quasar jet and human brain
and yet and yet what's going on inside
of that quasar jet is replicated inside
of the astrophysicists mind in terms of
the relationships between the entities
that are involved creating the phenomena
so in the quasar jet what's going on is
a bunch of physical relationships
between black holes magnetic fields
light matter what's going on inside of
the brain is a bunch of relationships as
well but these are abstract
relationships representing the physical
ones that are out there and as we create
more knowledge the model the theory the
explanation that's inside of an
astrophysicists brain of what a quasar
is represents the quasar with ever
greater accuracy so this is what
scientific knowledge is scientific
knowledge is where we embody
mathematical relationships we embody
explanatory relationships abstract ones
inside of our minds that represent the
mathematical and causal relationships of
things out there in the universe and as
that increases as that improves or
becomes more accurate that's what we
call the creation of knowledge well okay
so that that really impressive way of
looking at things okay so now I'm going
to skip a bit more but David also speaks
about how physical processes in general
when we're trying to predict what's
going to happen we really have to
consider the knowledge that happens to
be present at any particular location
and he uses the quaint example of the
SETI project
and the Arecibo telescope is it's in
Chile and it is part of the SETI project
the search for extraterrestrial
intelligence and in a fridge at the
Arecibo telescope as a bottle of
champagne which will be opened one day
if they find evidence of alien
intelligence out there somewhere using
the radio telescope so normally if
you're trying to predict if a gas filled
bottle is going to explode you use
equations from physics equations from
chemistry we'll use something called the
universal gas law universal gas law is a
PV equals NRT P is the pressure of V is
the volume n is the number of moles R is
the gas constant T is the temperature
and you can solve this equation and you
can if you already know what pressure is
required in order to release the cork
from a bottle well you can make a
prediction about when that cork is going
to be released from the bottle if we
start to heat the bottle up given its
volume and the pressure that's inside
already and the pressure that's outside
and etc you get what I'm saying you can
make a prediction of when the cork will
flip off the bottle but if you're
talking about that particular bottle in
that particular fridge then no amount of
physics and chemistry and thermodynamics
expertise is going to allow you to make
that prediction David writes of whether
or not the cork is going to pop out of
the bottle he writes to predict it you
have to know whether there really are
people sending radio signals from
various whole systems to explain it you
have to explain how people know about
those people in their attributes nothing
less than that specific knowledge which
depends upon which depends among other
things on subtle properties of the
chemistry of the planets on distant
stars can explain or predict with any
accuracy whether and when that cork will
pop so I basically reached the end of
this fantastic chapter it's an amazing
area the entire thing is an amazing read
I've taken something like 2 hours to
read the entire thing so let me just
read the conclusion David writes about
how as far as we know only here on earth
is
they're a hub of knowledge creation that
nowhere else in the universe is
knowledge being created and knowledge is
a cosmically significant thing for all
the reasons that is explained in this
chapter but the rest of the universe can
become a knowledge creating hub just
like the earth is all it needs is a
spark and he writes like an explosive
awaiting a spark unimaginably numerous
environments in the universe are waiting
out there for eons on end doing nothing
at all or blindly generating evidence
and storing it up or pouring it out into
space almost any of them would if the
right knowledge ever reached it
instantly and irrevocably burst into a
radically different type of physical
activity intent
knowledge creation displaying all the
various kinds of complexity universality
and rich that are inherent in the laws
of nature and transforming that
environment from what is typical today
into what could become typical in the
future if we want to we could be that
spark
well amazing he has a section at the end
of every chapter that contains
terminology I don't think I'll always
read this I didn't read it for chapter
one I didn't read it for chapter two but
I just want to pause and reflect on some
of the terminology used in this
particular chapter as it will become
relevant in subsequent chapters so he
defines a person if you remember and
this is from the last episode it defines
a person as an entity that can create
explanatory knowledge he talks about
fundamental or significant phenomena as
one that plays a necessary role in the
explanation of many phenomena or whose
distinctive features require distinctive
explanation in terms of fundamental
theories parochialism is the making is
mistaking appearance for reality or
local regularities for universal laws a
constructor is a device capable of
causing other objects to undergo
transformations without undergoing any
net change itself
a universal constructor is a constructor
that can cause any raw materials to
undergo any physical physically possible
transformation given the right
information so this is for telling
constructor theory there's a whole
website now for constructor theory ww
constructor theory org which you should
visit there are some fantastic videos
there there are there are excellent
papers that have been written and this
really shows a huge amount of promise
it's a new mode of explanation it's a
new way in which we can make progress in
physics many people have recognized I
think increasingly physicists have
recognized that string theory useful as
it is mathematically beautiful that
isn't might be mathematically isn't
making the kind of progress that people
assumed it would've after this many
decades
so whatever the case David's offering an
alternative unifying theory this
constructive theory that has the
potential to achieve not only some of
the things that string theory might have
but could be a way of looking at many
other kinds of science many other kinds
of philosophy this dichotomy between
what it is possible to achieve what is
in what is possible versus impossible
so I myself am looking forward to
learning more and more about this I'm
still still an amateur in this area and
so perhaps after the the beginning of
infinity readings I'll attempt to tackle
some of constructor theory
okay thanks next time chapter 4